time for our rising crisis update we'll
begin with a number of coronavirus cases
here in the United States and around the
world so here in the United States we
have 1 million 165 thousand 300 cases
that's an increase of 89 thousand cases
since Friday the total number of deaths
ANZUS 67 thousand seven hundred and
eighty-five that's four thousand six
hundred seventy six additional deaths
since Friday and in 3.4 million cases
worldwide 247 thousand five hundred
sixty-seven deaths so you can see
crystal with the sixty seven thousand
figure that the president of the
administration a couple months ago had
said hey 60,000 65 thousand with the you
know that looks like because of social
distancing that's where we've ended up
with now that number looking at 67,000
we don't exactly know what the upper
bound of that is now the president
saying maybe seventy five eighty ninety
thousand that's a lot of deaths and
unfortunately it bears dr. Burks and
foul cheese doctor foul cheese
predictions way earlier that a hundred
to two hundred thousand deaths is what
looked likely and that looks very much
the hundred thousand number seems like
something we can easily surpass and go
over yeah unfortunately that is
certainly the case and look there's some
indications that these numbers are
actually under counted there's also new
reporting about just just explaining the
difference between the way that flu
deaths are counted versus these look
these deaths are all very much directly
linked to coronavirus right with the flu
they use statistical modeling to find
sort of access deaths and then
extrapolate which one of those are
caused by the flu so it's not an apples
and apples comparison the flu deaths may
be overstated these deaths are likely
understated so just when you're hearing
that sort of rhetoric out there that's
an important thing to keep in mind but
yeah approaching seventy thousand deaths
at this point and you see those numbers
continuing to go up very very troubling
and there's a new study that is also
very concerning out in the university of
minnesota saying that it may take two
years for this pandemic to be contained
and look i mean our goal here is just to
really set expectations give you the
best information possible but
essentially what they did is went back
and looked historically at different
pandemics and what the shape of those
curves looked like they found you know
very common
that as we've been talking about here to
have a spike about six months on where
you see a resurgence and that it takes
that long for us to achieve that herd
immunity somewhere around seventy
percent of the population having some
level of immunity before you can really
get this thing contained and get it
under control and of course we don't
even know at this point if people who
have had it are actually immune or if
they are how long does that immunity
last we just don't know that at this
point I have no information about it
it's really concerning I mean and as you
said as far as modern medicine has
advanced okay I have with with novel
viruses like like these there's just not
that much you can do pretty much were
and almost in the same straits as we
were in 1919 we've learned a few lessons
but not all that many at the same time
the administration is really I mean is
really coming out there and out work out
rightly saying that China not only
responsible for the covering up the
corona virus but that the virus itself
is likely according to these senior
officials have emanated from that Wuhan
bioweapons laboratory not intentionally
but that in the process of having an
animal infected with the virus destroyed
that was passed on to a worker at that
laboratory who went out and spread it in
the general population now that does
come somewhat contrary to what senior
intelligence senior intelligence leaders
had put out in a statement saying that
we don't know but it could have come
from natural causes or not but secretary
Pompeo former CIA director as well
talked about this over the weekend on
the sunday shows let's take a listen and
mr. secretary have you seen anything
that gives you high confidence that it
originated in that Wuhan lab partha
there's enormous evidence that that's
where this began we've said from the
beginning that this was a virus that
originated in Wuhan China we took a lot
of grief for that from the outset but I
think the whole world can see now
remember China has a history of
infecting the world and they have a
history of running substandard
laboratories these are not the first
times that we've had a world exposed to
virus as a result of failures in the
Chinese lab and so while the
Intelligence Committee continues to do
its work they should continue to do that
and verify so that we are certain I can
tell you that there is as
significant amount of evidence that this
came from that laboratory in one so you
can see that the secretary secretary
Pompeo is playing and very much at the
feet of the Chinese and it and he's
using unequivocal rhetoric whenever he's
talking about this saying that there was
enormous evidence that that this virus
came from that Wuhan laboratory very
much could set up the stage for
geopolitical clash between the two
because the growing evidence whether
came from the lab or not it seems to be
the part of the reason why the Chinese
downplayed it so much in the beginning a
to avoid blame B was to really stockpile
all available medical supplies around
the world from Australia yeah because
they knew it was going to go elsewhere
so they wanted to pile it all up for
themselves and it was only after that
time that we got real transparency
around this and you can see the Chinese
government is very sensitive to these
accusations their propaganda campaign
ramping up against secretary Pompeo
against Steve Bannon actually this
morning putting a month full blast into
the entire nation of China saying that
their fear mongers and all that and I
think this is gonna be one of the
lasting legacies of coronavirus and and
from a like left or democratic
perspective you can acknowledge two
things right you can acknowledge that
there was a cover-up here that there was
that it may have originated out of the
lab whether it did or not certainly in
the early days we got very little
information some reports of the World
Health Organization helped to quash that
information flow coming out like you can
say that China handled this terribly and
also have a critique of this
administration and also recognize that
part of their fixation on China is an
attempt to blame shift and make the
election about that rather than the
early days of this response but to deny
this part and to deny the importance of
those early days in it ultimately
becoming a pandemic is you know just to
really put blinders on and ignore the
facts that are emerging more and more
just be very foolish and or and then
look people look like fools and they're
like Oh China did everything possible
it's like okay you want to stand on that
ground you're gonna look like an idiot
so that's we'll continue to keep you
updated on that story as always keep a
lot of skepticism both in the numbers
worldwide here in the United States and
anything coming out of the intelligence
community don't ever just believe it we
should demand the evidence and
please like share and subscribe so you
don't miss any of our updates or the
show have a great day we'll have another
crisis update for you here tomorrow